Kevin Yorn
Kevin Brett Yorn (born July 4, 1965) is an American entertainment attorney and investor. He co-founded Yorn Barnes Levine Entertainment Law Firm where he is managing partner.

Early life and education
Yorn was born in Montville, New Jersey to father Dr. Lawrence Yorn, a dentist and captain in the Army, and his mother, Joan Yorn. He has two brothers, Pete Yorn, a musician and Rick Yorn, a talent manager.Yorn is an alumnus of Muhlenberg College in Allentown, PA. He graduated with a Juris Doctor degree from Tulane University Law School in 1990 and was admitted to The State Bar of California in 1991. Yorn has collaborated with Tulane University, his alma mater and created funds to promote entertainment and media law at Tulane Law School as well as to support the Gender & Sexuality Studies program in the School of Liberal Arts.

Career
Early Career
Yorn became a deputy district attorney in L.A. County after graduating from Tulane Law in 1990. He was in the D.A.’s office for five years, working in the Hardcore Gang Investigations Unit.

Yorn Barnes Levine
In 1996 Yorn was recruited from the D.A.'s to partner with Michael Barnes, Kevin Morris and Brian Wolf, forming Barnes Morris Wolf & Yorn, based in Santa Monica.Aspiring writer Anthony Zuiker asked Yorn for help in escaping a screenwriting contract so that he could go on to create the television series CSI, which premiered in 2000.In 2013, Yorn worked on the deal to renew DeGeneres' talk show through 2016-17.In the summer of 2014, Yorn's firm made a deal with Hulu for three years of South Park reruns, reportedly at a price of more than $80 million, and he helped Zuiker make content deals with YouTube and Yahoo. Yorn also created a joint venture with Warner Bros., Ellen DigitalVentures, to help take advantage of Ellen DeGeneres’ social media reach, digital video content, games and apps, including Heads Up!.Yorn was listed among The Hollywood Reporter’s Top 100 Entertainment Attorneys in 2013 and 2014, and one of Hollywood's top power lawyers every year between 2015 and 2023.

Investing
In 2021, Yorn co-founded private equity investment firm Broadlight Holdings with his brother Rick and David Dorfman. The firm is focused on investments in the global technology and consumer landscape.

Personal life
Yorn lives in Los Angeles, California. His parents moved to Los Angeles in 2000, and his mother Joan became a receptionist at Yorn Barnes Levine.In 1996, he married film producer Julie Silverman in a Jewish ceremony in Tarrytown, New York. They later divorced in 2005.