Institutional Investor (magazine)
Institutional Investor magazine is a periodical published by Euromoney Institutional Investor. It was founded in 1967 by Gilbert E. Kaplan. A separate international edition of the magazine was established in 1976 for readers in Europe and Asia.

History
Capital Cities Communications purchased the magazine in early 1984. The Walt Disney Company bought Capital Cities in 1996 and sold the magazine to Euromoney one year later. Institutional Investor has offices in New York City, London and Hong Kong. In 2018, Institutional Investor became digital only.In March 2021, it was announced that Diane Alfano, the CEO of Institutional Investor, would be stepping down effective June 30, 2021. Alfano has worked at Institutional Investor since 1984. According to the announcement, her resignation comes as Euromoney, the publication's publicly-traded parent company, plans to merge Institutional Investor with sister companies BCA Research and NDR into an asset management division. As of May 2021, the CEO of the new unit is Francis Cashman.

Research and rankings
Institutional Investor publishes global research and issues rankings throughout the year that often serve as industry benchmarks. Top-line results are published in the magazine while the full details are available on institutionalinvestor.com. The rankings include:

Executive teams
The All-America Executive Team
The All-Europe Executive Team
The All-Asia Executive Team (excludes Japan)
The All-Japan Executive Team
The Latin America Executive Team

Research teams
The All-America Research Team
The All-Europe Research Team
The All-Asia Research Team (excludes Japan)
The All-Japan Research Team
The All-China Research Team
The Latin America Research Team
The All-Brazil Research Team
The All-India Research Team
The All-America Fixed-Income Research Team
The All-America Research Team Rising Stars
The All-Europe Fixed-Income Research Team
America's Top Corporate Access Providers
Asia's Top Corporate Access Providers
The Emerging EMEA Research Team
Europe's Top Corporate Access Providers
Japan's Top Corporate Access Providers