Bajura District
Bajura District (Nepali: बाजुरा जिल्ला Listen ), a part of Sudurpashchim Province, is one of the seventy-seven districts of Nepal. The district, with Martadi (today part of Badimalika municipality) as its district headquarters, covers an area of 2,188 km2 (845 sq mi) and had a population of 108,781 in 2001 and 134,912 in 2011.The annual rainfall is about 13,433 mm and temperatures vary from 0 °C to 40 °C. The livelihood of more than 80% of the district population depends on agriculture farming, mainly small scale livestock. Due to low level of agricultural production, the majority of the households face acute food shortages for a large part of the year. According to the National Census 2011, the total population of the district is 134,912 comprising 69,106 female (51%) and 65,806 male (49%) residing in 24,908 households. Bajura district has an average population density of around 62 people per square km. The average family size is 5.4. Life expectancy of the people is 58 years. The average literacy rate is about 32%. Bajura district has a multi ethnic composition with Chhetri, Kami, Thakuri, Brahman, Damai, SarkI and Sanyashi (Giri and Puri). The common language is Nepali (96%) followed by Bhote Sherpa (0.46%) and Tamang (0.42%). Although accessibility to Bajura is very poor, this is improving rapidly. The Government strategy is mainly focused on the connection of VDC headquarters with all-weather motor able roads to SRN or District headquarters. Moreover, the DDC body of Bajura district has given higher priority on rural roads.

Geography and Climate
The district has nine municipalities, 9 Ilakas (administrative areas) and 1 constituency areas. The district is situated in Longitude between 81° 10′ 20″ to 81° 48′ 27″ East and Latitude 29° 16′ 21″ to 29° 56′ 56″ North. Geographically the district is divided in three distinct regions from north to south viz. Higher Himalayan Region, Higher Mountain and mid – Mountains. The Higher Himalayan region comprises Saipal Himalayan range; High Mountain region comprises Doha Lekh and Ghori Lekh. Similarly, Mid-Mountain range comprises different ranges of mountains e.g. Badimalika Temple. The District has started from 300m to 6400m in height.

Demographics
At the time of the 2011 Nepal census, Bajura District had a population of 134,912.
As their first language, 99.2% spoke Nepali, 0.5% Sherpa, 0.1% Tamang and 0.1% other languages.Ethnicity/caste: 57.8% were Chhetri, 9.8% Kami, 7.0% Hill Brahmin, 5.2% Thakuri, 5.0% Sarki, 4.2% Damai/Dholi, 3.9% Lohar, 2.4% Sanyasi/Dasnami, 1.4% Badi, 1.0% Bhote, 0.9% other Dalit, 0.3% Kumal, 0.2% Teli, 0.1% Limbu, 0.1% Magar, 0.1% Mallaha, 0.1% Musalman, 0.1% Tamang, 0.1% other Terai, 0.1% Tharu and 0.2% others.Religion: 98.7% were Hindu, 1.1% Buddhist, 0.1% Christian and 0.1% Muslim,Literacy: 55.4% could read and write, 2.5% could only read and 42.1% could neither read nor write.

Administration
The district consists of nine municipalities, out of which four are urban municipalities and five are rural municipalities. These are as follows:
Badimalika Municipality
Triveni Municipality
Budhiganga Municipality
Budhinanda Municipality
Gaumul Rural Municipality
Jagnnath Rural Municipality
Swamikartik Khapar Rural Municipality
Chhededaha Rural Municipality
Himali Rural Municipality

Former Village Development Committees
Prior to the restructuring of the district, Bajura District consisted of the following Village development committees:

Health care
The small health centres in many VDCs are without Auxiliary Health Workers (AHWs), Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) and Community Health Workers (CHWs). Primary or normal treatment can be done in the district headquarters and also in Bayalpata Hospital of neighbouring district Accham while people seeking severe cases have to travel a long distance to Kathmandu or other major cities or end up dying because of lack of treatment. Many people still believe in Dhami and Jhakri and do not always seek medical or go to the hospital for treatment. An NGO, PHASE Nepal provides many health care facilities and training programs to six VDCs: Kolti, Wai, Kotila, Pandusain, Rugin and Bandhu. Many people residing in these VDCs have benefited from the program.Currently PHASE Nepal is working on several projects in this district including community health and education, livelihood, hygiene, sanitation and diarrhoea mitigation programmes. PHASE Nepal also conduct education programs like teacher training and girls empowerment programme.

Colleges and School in Bajura
Martadi, Bajura

Bajura Multiple CampusIt has been conditioning the bachelor level programs with affiliation to Tribhuwan University, Kirtipur, Kathmandu, Nepal.

Badimalika English Boarding School
Converse Academy
Shree Malika Higher Secondary SchoolKolti, Bajura 

Shree Jana Prakash Higher Secondary SchoolNaubis, Bajura

Shree Bhanodaya higher Secondary School
Badimalika Multiple CampusIt is conducting the Bachelor's level program BBS, BEd & B.A. with affiliation to Tribhuwan University
Triveni, Bajura

Ratna Higher Secondary School, Seliphal, Bajura.It was established in 2022 BS, it recently started offering +2 level program in Humanities and Education stream.

Masteshwori Higher Secondary School, Pandhara, Bajura.The school is providing plus two level program in Humanities and Education stream.

Tolidewal Danda Secondary School, Toli, Bajura.The school is providing plus two level program in Humanities and Education stream.

Tribhuwaneshwari Secondary School, Chhatara, Bajura.The school is providing plus two level program in Management and Education stream.

Shree Parvati Secondary School, Paima, Bajura
Nateshwori Secondary School, Khripata, Bajura
Damtha Secondary School, Kailashmandu Bajura
Bajura Model Academy, Khirpata Bajura
Bahrabis, Bajura

Shree Trishakti Higher Secondary School, Tallakot, BajuraThe school is providing plus two level education in Management and Education faculty.

Photos of Bajura