Memorial High School (Port Arthur, Texas)
Memorial High School is a public, co-educational secondary school located in Port Arthur, Texas, United States. It was established in August 2002 after a merger of three previous high schools: Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln, and Stephen F. Austin. Since then, Port Arthur Memorial High School has been the only high school in the Port Arthur Independent School District. It serves most of Port Arthur and a portion of Groves. Initially, the school used the former Lincoln and Jefferson campuses; its new facility opened for the 2009–10 school year on the northern side of Port Arthur. It also has a 9th Grade Center in the Port Acres area of Port Arthur, on the former Austin Middle School campus.
When Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and Stephen F. Austin high schools were consolidated, students voted on the name for the new high school and the top two vote-getters were "Memorial High School" and "Thurgood Marshall High School". In September 2007, school board member Terry Doyle suggested renaming Memorial High School after the late Staff Sgt. Lucian Adams, a Port Arthur native who received the Medal of Honor for his bravery in World War II.  Employees of the school district established a museum of artifacts from the three former high schools plus the Catholic Bishop Byrne High School.

Athletics
Memorial High School currently participates in District 22-5A. Memorial participates in the following UIL sports where it has had success in many district championships and playoff wins: 

Football
Volleyball
Cheerleading
Cross Country
Basketball
Soccer
Track and Field
Swimming and Diving
Baseball
Softball
Tennis
Powerlifting
Golf

Organizations
Memorial has many organizations including an award winning:

Marching Band known as "The Marching Heat"
Dance/Drill Team known as the "Flames" usually made up of 30-60 girls
The Titan Press Newspaper and Yearbook
NJROTC
Theatre
MHS Choir on FireAmong over 30 clubs.

Notable alumni
Eric Alexander, former NFL linebacker, attended Stephen F. Austin
Bun B, rapper and former member of UGK, attended Thomas Jefferson
Aaron Brown, former NFL defensive end, attended Lincoln
Jonathan Babineaux, former NFL defensive tackle, attended Lincoln
Jordan Babineaux, former NFL cornerback, attended Lincoln
G. W. Bailey (Thomas Jefferson Class of 1961) — stage, television and film actor
J'Covan Brown (born 1990), basketball player in the Israel Basketball Premier League
Pimp C, rapper and former member of UGK, attended Lincoln
Jamaal Charles, former NFL running back
Todd Dodge (Thomas Jefferson alumni) — a former Texas high school football coach
Kevin Everett, former NFL tight end, attended Thomas Jefferson
Goose Gonsoulin, former NFL safety, attended Thomas Jefferson
Danny Gorrer, former NFL cornerback
Mike Green, former NFL linebacker, attended Lincoln
Gary Hammond, former NFL wide receiver and running back, attended Thomas Jefferson
Duriel Harris, former NFL wide receiver, attended Stephen F. Austin
Xavier Hernandez, former MLB pitcher, attended Thomas Jefferson
Stephen Jackson, former NBA guard, attended Lincoln
James Johnson, former NFL running back, attended Thomas Jefferson
Jimmy Johnson (Thomas Jefferson Class of 1961) — Pro Football Hall of Fame coach, also a college coach
Paul Jones, professional wrestler
Janis Joplin (Thomas Jefferson Class of 1960) — A rock, soul, and blues singer and songwriter, member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
Carl Larpenter, former NFL offensive lineman, attended Thomas Jefferson
Bobby Leopold, former NFL linebacker, attended Lincoln
Tim McKyer, former NFL cornerback, attended Lincoln
Inika McPherson, national champion high jumper
Marcus Price, former NFL offensive lineman, attended Lincoln
Elandon Roberts, NFL linebacker
Dan Rogas, former NFL offensive lineman, attended Thomas Jefferson
Cotton Speyrer, former NFL wide receiver, attended Thomas Jefferson
Raymond Strother, political consultant, attended Thomas Jefferson
Kary Vincent Jr., NFL player
Joe Washington, former NFL running back, attended Lincoln