Clarkstown High School South
Clarkstown High School South is a public high school located in West Nyack, New York, United States. The school educates students in grades 9 through 12, and is one of two high schools in the Clarkstown Central School District (CCSD). It is commonly referred to as Clarkstown South, or simply "South."
In 2013, Clarkstown South was ranked in Newsweek's list of the 2000 best public high schools in the United States.In 2016, Clarkstown South was ranked in Newsweek's list of the 500 top high schools in the United States, ranking 167th place.
In 2017, Clarkstown South was a part of State Education Commissioner Elia's list of 185 reward schools.In 2018, Clarkstown South was recognized in the National Rankings and earned a silver medal based on their performance on state-required tests and how well they prepare students for college.

School facilities
Clarkstown South building consists of a main lobby, large auditorium, gymnasium (including a wrestling room and a fitness center), music wing, planetarium, two lunchrooms, and three floors of classrooms. In the fall of 2005, a planetarium was built in the rear of the building.  A greenhouse was also constructed in 2006. South offers many music ensembles, including chorus, orchestra, concert band, and marching band.

School groups
The Vikings are also known for their success in many of their school groups. Clarkstown South takes pride in Junior Statesmen of America, DECA, National History Day, United Service Organization/Veterans Affairs Club, Mock Trial Team 2016 Westchester/Rockland County Champions, VAASA (Varsity Athletes Against Substance Abuse), and Mu Alpha Theta chapter because of the many awards they bring home to their school.The school hosted the Clarkstown Summer Theatre Festival since its inception in 1973 until its last season in 2010. Subsequently, it hosted the Hudson Valley Teen Summer Theatre program.

School activities and clubs
Clarkstown South offers a variety of activities and clubs for the students to enjoy. The clubs at South cater to all kinds of students, whether their interests are art, music, math, science, etc. Some of the clubs they have are the Mural Club, South Beat, TV Club, ASMA, World Language Club, Viking Radio, and more.

Notable alumni
Corey Baker (born 1989), baseball pitcher
Tom Basile (born 1975), businessman and politician
Mat Devine (born 1974), Lead Singer Of Kill Hannah, Actor, Author
Thomas Fitton (Class of 1986), American activist, President of Judicial Watch
Ryan Grant, NFL running back
Allison Hagendorf (born 1979), Television personality, music journalist
Cindy Jebb (Class of 1978), Brigadier General, USA and first female Dean of the United States Military Academy at West Point
Patrick Kivlehan (born 1989), baseball outfielder
Raffi Krikorian (Class of 1996), CTO for the Emerson Collective, Former CTO of the Democratic Party, and Former VP of Platform Engineering at Twitter
Glyph Lefkowitz (Class of 1998) Creator of the Twisted framework for the Python programming language
Jay Leiderman (Class of 1989), American criminal defense lawyer, book author
Joseph Pisani (Class of 1989), artist and photographer
Justin Richardson (Class of 1981), psychiatrist and author