New Dramatists
New Dramatists is an organization of playwrights founded in 1949 and located at 424 West 44th Street between Ninth and Tenth Avenues in the Hell's Kitchen (Clinton) neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City.
The members of New Dramatists participate in seven-year residencies to build up their playwriting skills and develop their careers.  In addition to housing resident playwrights, New Dramatists also holds workshops for young authors. The organization hosts an annual luncheon at which actors and producers who have made contributions to American theatre are honored. Brian Stokes Mitchell, Glenn Close, and Meryl Streep are among past honorees.The New Dramatists have a library that is open to the public on weekdays.

Building
New Dramatists is located in a former church built in the 1880s in the Gothic Revival style. It was the location in turn of St. Matthew's German Lutheran Church, the Lutheran Church of the Redeemer, the Lutheran Metropolitan Inner Mission Society, and, by the mid-1960s, the All People's Church.

Alumni
New Dramatists' alumni include:

Glen Berger
Kia Corthron
Jorge Ignacio Cortiñas
Erin Courtney
Carson Kreitzer
Peter Maloney (actor)
Tarell Alvin McCraney
Suzan-Lori Parks
Harrison David Rivers
Charles Smith, playwright
Charise Castro Smith, television writer and actor
Octavio Solis
Mark St. Germain, playwright, author, and film and television writer.
Gaye Taylor Upchurch, who has directed plays at the Studio Theatre (Washington, D.C.), the Summer Play Festival, and the Pacific Playwrights Festival

Awards
Nathan Lane was awarded the New Dramatists' 2019 Distinguished Achievement Award. Audra McDonald, Brian Stokes Mitchell, Daryl Roth, Paula Vogel, and Denzel Washington have received this award in prior years.

History
New Dramatists was established in 1949 as the New Dramatists Committee. Its formation was instigated by Michaela O'Harra, who became the first executive secretary of the Committee. Howard Lindsay was the first chair; other founders included Benjamin Schankman, Russel Crouse, Richard Rodgers, and Oscar Hammerstein II. The Committee was initially funded by contributions from the Playwrights Company, the Cornell-McClintic Foundation and a donation from John Golden.