Robinsons Galleria Cebu
Robinsons Galleria Cebu, also known and branded as Galleria Cebu, is a shopping mall and mixed-use development located in North Reclamation Area, Cebu City. It is the 2nd Robinsons Mall to bear the Galleria branding after Robinsons Galleria. The mall opened on December 10, 2015. The mall is just a few meters from the Port of Cebu and approximately 1 kilometre (0.62 mi) away from SM City Cebu. The mall is owned and operated by Robinsons Malls. It is the firm's third largest mall (after Robinsons Place Manila and its namesake, Robinsons Galleria, in Ortigas, Metro Manila).

History
In 2008, Robinsons Land, Inc. announced that they have bought a 4-hectare (9.9-acre) prime property near the Port of Cebu. The company bared that they planned to build a mall, a three-storey BPO tower, a 153-room Go Hotel (which would have been the first in Cebu), 9,000 m2 (97,000 sq ft) of office space and a couple of high-rise condominiums. The development was initially called Robinsons Maxilom, named after General Maxilom Avenue, the road it directly borders to. The project was then renamed to its current name a couple of years later. The project broke ground in July 2012 and construction followed soon. The mall opened on December 10, 2015, exactly two weeks after another mall, SM Seaside City Cebu by rival group SM Supermalls opened.

Mall features
The main mall is four storeys tall, while a BPO building with a total floor space of 9,000 m2 (97,000 sq ft) is three storeys tall. There will be six cinemas in the mall. The mall also has an al fresco dining area and the mall's interiors feature lush gardens. When the whole development is finished, it will have a 153-room hotel named Summit Galleria Hotel, BPO towers, and three high-rise condominiums (which will be located at the back of the mall).

Incidents
December 10, 2022 4:20 PM.
The nearby abandoned White Gold Shopping Mall, collapsed due to weathering, and traffic congestion. Some of the nearby roads had to be temporarily closed. Including B. Benedicto St, in which neighbors the mall on the northwest, near the Summit Hotel. However, the mall has not been damage, nor injured anyone on B. Benedicto St, near the mall, or in the abandoned building.